88,Core,"Contact regular and prospective customers to demonstrate products, explain product features, and solicit orders."88,Core,"Recommend products to customers, based on customers' needs and interests."80,Core,"Answer customers' questions about products, prices, availability, product uses, and credit terms."77,Core,"Estimate or quote prices, credit or contract terms, warranties, and delivery dates."76,Core,Consult with clients after sales or contract signings to resolve problems and to provide ongoing support.74,Core,Provide customers with product samples and catalogs.71,Core,"Identify prospective customers by using business directories, following leads from existing clients, participating in organizations and clubs, and attending trade shows and conferences."70,Core,"Prepare drawings, estimates, and bids that meet specific customer needs."69,Core,"Monitor market conditions, product innovations, and competitors' products, prices, and sales."63,Core,"Perform administrative duties, such as preparing sales budgets and reports, keeping sales records, and filing expense account reports."58,Core,Obtain credit information about prospective customers.76,Supplemental,Train customers' employees to operate and maintain new equipment.72,Supplemental,Prepare sales contracts and order forms.69,Supplemental,Negotiate details of contracts and payments.68,Supplemental,Forward orders to manufacturers.66,Supplemental,"Negotiate with retail merchants to improve product exposure, such as shelf positioning and advertising."62,Supplemental,"Plan, assemble, and stock product displays in retail stores, or make recommendations to retailers regardingproduct displays, promotional programs, and advertising."61,Supplemental,Check stock levels and reorder merchandise as necessary.61,Supplemental,Arrange and direct delivery and installation of products and equipment.61,Supplemental,Buy products frommanufacturers or brokerage firms and distribute them to wholesale and retail clients.
Tools,Desktop computers,
Tools,Laser printers,
Tools,Liquid crystal display projector,Light-emitting diode LED projectors
Tools,Mobile phones,Mobile telephones
Tools,Notebook computers,Laptop computers
Tools,Personal computers,
Technology,Accounting software,Intuit QuickBooks software
Technology,Accounting software,Sage 50 Accounting
Technology,Business intelligence and data analysis software,IBM Cognos Impromptu
Technology,Business intelligence and data analysis software,MicroStrategy software
Technology,Business intelligence and data analysis software,Oracle Business Intelligence Enterprise Edition
Technology,Business intelligence and data analysis software,Tableau software
Technology,Calendar and scheduling software,Computerized call calendars
Technology,Calendar and scheduling software,Computerized time management systems
Technology,Customer relationship management CRM software,FrontRange Solutions Goldmine software
Technology,Customer relationship management CRM software,NetSuite NetCRM
Technology,Customer relationship management CRM software,Soffront CRM Portal
Technology,Customer relationship management CRM software,Tigerpaw software
Technology,Data base reporting software,SalesInSync software
Technology,Data base user interface and query software,Database software
Technology,Data base user interface and query software,FileMaker Pro software
Technology,Data base user interface and query software,Microsoft Access
Technology,Data base user interface and query software,Oracle software
Technology,Data mining software,Google Analytics
Technology,Desktop publishing software,Adobe Systems Adobe InDesign
Technology,Desktop publishing software,Contract Central software
Technology,Desktop publishing software,Microsoft Publisher
Technology,Document management software,Adobe Systems Adobe Acrobat
Technology,Electronic mail software,IBM Notes
Technology,Electronic mail software,Microsoft Exchange
Technology,Electronic mail software,Microsoft Outlook
Technology,Electronic mail software,Mozilla Thunderbird
Technology,Enterprise application integration software,Extensible markup language XML
Technology,Enterprise resource planning ERP software,Microsoft Dynamics software
Technology,Enterprise resource planning ERP software,Oracle JD Edwards EnterpriseOne
Technology,Enterprise resource planning ERP software,SAP software
Technology,Enterprise resource planning ERP software,SSA Global BPCS
Technology,Expert system software,Mastermind software
Technology,Financial analysis software,Delphi software
Technology,Graphics or photo imaging software,Adobe Systems Adobe Flash
Technology,Graphics or photo imaging software,Adobe Systems Adobe Photoshop software
Technology,Information retrieval or search software,LexisNexis software
Technology,Internet browser software,Microsoft Internet Explorer
Technology,Internet browser software,Mozilla Firefox
Technology,Internet browser software,SeaMonkey
Technology,Office suite software,Microsoft Office software
Technology,Operating system software,Apple Macintosh OS/X
Technology,Presentation software,Microsoft PowerPoint
Technology,Project management software,Microsoft SharePoint software
Technology,Sales and marketing software,Google AdWords
Technology,Spreadsheet software,Microsoft Excel
Technology,Word processing software,Microsoft Word
91,Sales and Marketing,"Knowledge of principles and methods for showing, promoting, and selling products or services. This includes marketing strategy and tactics, product demonstration, sales techniques, and sales control systems."
81,Customer and Personal Service,"Knowledge of principles and processes for providing customer and personal services. This includes customer needs assessment, meeting quality standards for services, and evaluation of customer satisfaction."
63,English Language,"Knowledge of the structure and content of the English language including the meaning and spelling of words, rules of composition, and grammar."
57,Administration and Management,"Knowledge of business and management principles involved in strategic planning, resource allocation, human resources modeling, leadership technique, production methods, and coordination of people and resources."
46,Clerical,"Knowledge of administrative and clerical procedures and systems such as word processing, managing files and records, stenography and transcription, designing forms, and other office procedures and terminology."
42,Production and Processing,"Knowledge of raw materials, production processes, quality control, costs, and other techniques for maximizing the effective manufacture and distribution of goods."
37,Economics and Accounting,"Knowledge of economic and accounting principles and practices, the financial markets, banking and the analysis and reporting of financial data."
37,Computers and Electronics,"Knowledge of circuit boards, processors, chips, electronic equipment, and computer hardware and software, including applications and programming."
37,Mathematics,"Knowledge of arithmetic, algebra, geometry, calculus, statistics, and their applications."
30,Psychology,"Knowledge of human behavior and performance; individual differences in ability, personality, and interests; learning and motivation; psychological research methods; and the assessment and treatment of behavioral and affective disorders."
28,Communications and Media,"Knowledge of media production, communication, and dissemination techniques and methods. This includes alternative ways to inform and entertain via written, oral, and visual media."
27,Transportation,"Knowledge of principles and methods for moving people or goods by air, rail, sea, or road, including the relative costs and benefits."
26,Education and Training,"Knowledge of principles and methods for curriculum and training design, teaching and instruction for individuals and groups, and the measurement of training effects."
24,Engineering and Technology,"Knowledge of the practical application of engineering science and technology. This includes applying principles, techniques, procedures, and equipment to the design and production of various goods and services."
23,Design,"Knowledge of design techniques, tools, and principles involved in production of precision technical plans, blueprints, drawings, and models."
23,Law and Government,"Knowledge of laws, legal codes, court procedures, precedents, government regulations, executive orders, agency rules, and the democratic political process."
22,Telecommunications,"Knowledge of transmission, broadcasting, switching, control, and operation of telecommunications systems."
21,Personnel and Human Resources,"Knowledge of principles and procedures for personnel recruitment, selection, training, compensation and benefits, labor relations and negotiation, and personnel information systems."
18,Food Production,"Knowledge of techniques and equipment for planting, growing, and harvesting food products (both plant and animal) for consumption, including storage/handling techniques."
18,Mechanical,"Knowledge of machines and tools, including their designs, uses, repair, and maintenance."
15,Sociology and Anthropology,"Knowledge of group behavior and dynamics, societal trends and influences, human migrations, ethnicity, cultures and their history and origins."
15,Geography,"Knowledge of principles and methods for describing the features of land, sea, and air masses, including their physical characteristics, locations, interrelationships, and distribution of plant, animal, and human life."
11,Public Safety and Security,"Knowledge of relevant equipment, policies, procedures, and strategies to promote effective local, state, or national security operations for the protection of people, data, property, and institutions."
10,Building and Construction,"Knowledge of materials, methods, and the tools involved in the construction or repair of houses, buildings, or other structures such as highways and roads."
10,Chemistry,"Knowledge of the chemical composition, structure, and properties of substances and of the chemical processes and transformations that they undergo. This includes uses of chemicals and their interactions, danger signs, production techniques, and disposal methods."
7,History and Archeology,"Knowledge of historical events and their causes, indicators, and effects on civilizations and cultures."
6,Physics,"Knowledge and prediction of physical principles, laws, their interrelationships, and applications to understanding fluid, material, and atmospheric dynamics, and mechanical, electrical, atomic and sub- atomic structures and processes."
6,Therapy and Counseling,"Knowledge of principles, methods, and procedures for diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation of physical and mental dysfunctions, and for career counseling and guidance."
6,Foreign Language,"Knowledge of the structure and content of a foreign (non-English) language including the meaning and spelling of words, rules of composition and grammar, and pronunciation."
5,Philosophy and Theology,"Knowledge of different philosophical systems and religions. This includes their basic principles, values, ethics, ways of thinking, customs, practices, and their impact on human culture."
4,Biology,"Knowledge of plant and animal organisms, their tissues, cells, functions, interdependencies, and interactions with each other and the environment."
2,Medicine and Dentistry,"Knowledge of the information and techniques needed to diagnose and treat human injuries, diseases, and deformities. This includes symptoms, treatment alternatives, drug properties and interactions, and preventive health-care measures."
2,Fine Arts,"Knowledge of the theory and techniques required to compose, produce, and perform works of music, dance, visual arts, drama, and sculpture."
75,Active Listening,"Giving full attention to what other people are saying, taking time to understand the points being made, asking questions as appropriate, and not interrupting at inappropriate times."
75,Speaking,Talking to others to convey information effectively.
72,Persuasion,Persuading others to change their minds or behavior.
69,Social Perceptiveness,Being aware of others' reactions and understanding why they react as they do.
66,Critical Thinking,"Using logic and reasoning to identify the strengths and weaknesses of alternative solutions, conclusions or approaches to problems."
66,Negotiation,Bringing others together and trying to reconcile differences.
60,Reading Comprehension,Understanding written sentences and paragraphs in work related documents.
56,Service Orientation,Actively looking for ways to help people.
53,Active Learning,Understanding the implications of new information for both current and future problem-solving and decision-making.
53,Coordination,Adjusting actions in relation to others' actions.
53,Judgment and Decision Making,Considering the relative costs and benefits of potential actions to choose the most appropriate one.
50,Monitoring,"Monitoring/Assessing performance of yourself, other individuals, or organizations to make improvements or take corrective action."
47,Writing,Communicating effectively in writing as appropriate for the needs of the audience.
47,Complex Problem Solving,Identifying complex problems and reviewing related information to develop and evaluate options and implement solutions.
44,Instructing,Teaching others how to do something.
44,Time Management,Managing one's own time and the time of others.
35,Learning Strategies,Selecting and using training/instructional methods and procedures appropriate for the situation when learning or teaching new things.
31,Systems Analysis,"Determining how a system should work and how changes in conditions, operations, and the environment will affect outcomes."
31,Management of Personnel Resources,"Motivating, developing, and directing people as they work, identifying the best people for the job."
28,Mathematics,Using mathematics to solve problems.
28,Systems Evaluation,"Identifying measures or indicators of system performance and the actions needed to improve or correct performance, relative to the goals of the system."
25,Operations Analysis,Analyzing needs and product requirements to create a design.
22,Operation and Control,Controlling operations of equipment or systems.
19,Management of Financial Resources,"Determining how money will be spent to get the work done, and accounting for these expenditures."
19,Management of Material Resources,"Obtaining and seeing to the appropriate use of equipment, facilities, and materials needed to do certain work."
16,Technology Design,Generating or adapting equipment and technology to serve user needs.
16,Operation Monitoring,"Watching gauges, dials, or other indicators to make sure a machine is working properly."
13,Programming,Writing computer programs for various purposes.
6,Science,Using scientific rules and methods to solve problems.
6,Quality Control Analysis,"Conducting tests and inspections of products, services, or processes to evaluate quality or performance."
0,Equipment Selection,Determining the kind of tools and equipment needed to do a job.
0,Installation,"Installing equipment, machines, wiring, or programs to meet specifications."
0,Equipment Maintenance,Performing routine maintenance on equipment and determining when and what kind of maintenance is needed.
0,Troubleshooting,Determining causes of operating errors and deciding what to do about it.
0,Repairing,Repairing machines or systems using the needed tools.
75,Oral Comprehension,The ability to listen to and understand information and ideas presented through spoken words and sentences.
75,Oral Expression,The ability to communicate information and ideas in speaking so others will understand.
75,Speech Recognition,The ability to identify and understand the speech of another person.
75,Speech Clarity,The ability to speak clearly so others can understand you.
66,Written Comprehension,The ability to read and understand information and ideas presented in writing.
66,Written Expression,The ability to communicate information and ideas in writing so others will understand.
56,Problem Sensitivity,"The ability to tell when something is wrong or is likely to go wrong. It does not involve solving the problem, only recognizing there is a problem."
53,Deductive Reasoning,The ability to apply general rules to specific problems to produce answers that make sense.
53,Near Vision,The ability to see details at close range (within a few feet of the observer).
50,Fluency of Ideas,"The ability to come up with a number of ideas about a topic (the number of ideas is important, not their quality, correctness, or creativity)."
50,Originality,"The ability to come up with unusual or clever ideas about a given topic or situation, or to develop creative ways to solve a problem."
50,Inductive Reasoning,The ability to combine pieces of information to form general rules or conclusions (includes finding a relationship among seemingly unrelated events).
50,Information Ordering,"The ability to arrange things or actions in a certain order or pattern according to a specific rule or set of rules (e.g., patterns of numbers, letters, words, pictures, mathematical operations)."
50,Category Flexibility,The ability to generate or use different sets of rules for combining or grouping things in different ways.
44,Selective Attention,The ability to concentrate on a task over a period of time without being distracted.
38,Time Sharing,"The ability to shift back and forth between two or more activities or sources of information (such as speech, sounds, touch, or other sources)."
31,Mathematical Reasoning,The ability to choose the right mathematical methods or formulas to solve a problem.
31,Flexibility of Closure,"The ability to identify or detect a known pattern (a figure, object, word, or sound) that is hidden in other distracting material."
31,Finger Dexterity,"The ability to make precisely coordinated movements of the fingers of one or both hands to grasp, manipulate, or assemble very small objects."
31,Far Vision,The ability to see details at a distance.
28,Number Facility,"The ability to add, subtract, multiply, or divide quickly and correctly."
28,Memorization,"The ability to remember information such as words, numbers, pictures, and procedures."
28,Speed of Closure,"The ability to quickly make sense of, combine, and organize information into meaningful patterns."
28,Perceptual Speed,"The ability to quickly and accurately compare similarities and differences among sets of letters, numbers, objects, pictures, or patterns. The things to be compared may be presented at the same time or one after the other. This ability also includes comparing a presented object with a remembered object."
28,Visualization,The ability to imagine how something will look after it is moved around or when its parts are moved or rearranged.
28,Control Precision,The ability to quickly and repeatedly adjust the controls of a machine or a vehicle to exact positions.
28,Multilimb Coordination,"The ability to coordinate two or more limbs (for example, two arms, two legs, or one leg and one arm) while sitting, standing, or lying down. It does not involve performing the activities while the whole body is in motion."
25,Arm-Hand Steadiness,The ability to keep your hand and arm steady while moving your arm or while holding your arm and hand in one position.
25,Manual Dexterity,"The ability to quickly move your hand, your hand together with your arm, or your two hands to grasp, manipulate, or assemble objects."
25,Visual Color Discrimination,"The ability to match or detect differences between colors, including shades of color and brightness."
25,Depth Perception,"The ability to judge which of several objects is closer or farther away from you, or to judge the distance between you and an object."
22,Trunk Strength,The ability to use your abdominal and lower back muscles to support part of the body repeatedly or continuously over time without 'giving out' or fatiguing.
22,Auditory Attention,The ability to focus on a single source of sound in the presence of other distracting sounds.
19,Speed of Limb Movement,The ability to quickly move the arms and legs.
19,Hearing Sensitivity,The ability to detect or tell the differences between sounds that vary in pitch and loudness.
13,Night Vision,The ability to see under low light conditions.
13,Peripheral Vision,The ability to see objects or movement of objects to one's side when the eyes are looking ahead.
13,Glare Sensitivity,The ability to see objects in the presence of glare or bright lighting.
10,Spatial Orientation,The ability to know your location in relation to the environment or to know where other objects are in relation to you.
10,Response Orientation,"The ability to choose quickly between two or more movements in response to two or more different signals (lights, sounds, pictures). It includes the speed with which the correct response is started with the hand, foot, or other body part."
10,Rate Control,The ability to time your movements or the movement of a piece of equipment in anticipation of changes in the speed and/or direction of a moving object or scene.
10,Reaction Time,"The ability to quickly respond (with the hand, finger, or foot) to a signal (sound, light, picture) when it appears."
10,Sound Localization,The ability to tell the direction from which a sound originated.
6,Stamina,The ability to exert yourself physically over long periods of time without getting winded or out of breath.
6,Extent Flexibility,"The ability to bend, stretch, twist, or reach with your body, arms, and/or legs."
0,Wrist-Finger Speed,"The ability to make fast, simple, repeated movements of the fingers, hands, and wrists."
0,Static Strength,"The ability to exert maximum muscle force to lift, push, pull, or carry objects."
0,Explosive Strength,"The ability to use short bursts of muscle force to propel oneself (as in jumping or sprinting), or to throw an object."
0,Dynamic Strength,The ability to exert muscle force repeatedly or continuously over time. This involves muscular endurance and resistance to muscle fatigue.
0,Dynamic Flexibility,"The ability to quickly and repeatedly bend, stretch, twist, or reach out with your body, arms, and/or legs."
0,Gross Body Coordination,"The ability to coordinate the movement of your arms, legs, and torso together when the whole body is in motion."
0,Gross Body Equilibrium,The ability to keep or regain your body balance or stay upright when in an unstable position.
Detailed Work Activity
Negotiate prices or other sales terms.
Identify potential customers.
Monitor market conditions or trends.
Maintain records of sales or other business transactions.
Develop proposals for current or prospective customers.
Prepare sales or other contracts.
Explain technical product or service information to customers.
Answer customer questions about goods or services.
Advise customers on the use of products or services.
Prepare financial documents, reports, or budgets.
Contact current or potential customers to promote products or services.
Recommend products or services to customers.
Arrange delivery of goods or services.
Estimate costs or terms of sales.
Purchase stocks of merchandise or supplies.
Demonstrate products to consumers.
Distribute promotional literature or samples to customers.
Verify customer credit information.
Monitor inventories of products or materials.
Coordinate sales campaigns.
Set up merchandise displays.
Stock products or parts.
Study product information to acquire professional knowledge.
Prepare drawings or diagrams of products or services.

