85,Core,"Design, build, or maintain Web sites, using authoring or scripting languages, content creation tools, management tools, and digital media."
80,Core,Perform or direct Web site updates.
79,Core,"Write, design, or edit Web page content, or direct others producing content."
78,Core,"Confer with management or development teams to prioritize needs, resolve conflicts, develop content criteria, or choose solutions."
78,Core,Back up files from Web sites to local directories for instant recovery in case of problems.
74,Core,"Identify problems uncovered by testing or customer feedback, and correct problems or refer problems to appropriate personnel for correction."
73,Core,"Evaluate code to ensure that it is valid, is properly structured, meets industry standards, and is compatible with browsers, devices, or operating systems."
73,Core,"Maintain understanding of current Web technologies or programming practices through continuing education, reading, or participation in professional conferences, workshops, or groups."
72,Core,Analyze user needs to determine technical requirements.
72,Core,Develop or validate test routines and schedules to ensure that test cases mimic external interfaces and address all browser and device types.
71,Core,Develop databases that support Web applications and Web sites.
70,Core,Renew domain name registrations.
69,Core,Collaborate with management or users to develop e-commerce strategies and to integrate these strategies with Web sites.
68,Core,Write supporting code for Web applications or Web sites.
67,Core,Communicate with network personnel or Web site hosting agencies to address hardware or software issues affecting Web sites.
66,Core,"Design and implement Web site security measures, such as firewalls or message encryption."
65,Core,"Perform Web site tests according to planned schedules, or after any Web site or product revision."
62,Core,"Select programming languages, design tools, or applications."
62,Core,"Incorporate technical considerations into Web site design plans, such as budgets, equipment, performance requirements, or legal issues including accessibility and privacy."
60,Core,"Respond to user email inquiries, or set up automated systems to send responses."
59,Core,Develop or implement procedures for ongoing Web site revision.
59,Core,Develop and document style guidelines for Web site content.
58,Core,"Develop Web site maps, application models, image templates, or page templates that meet project goals, user needs, or industry standards."
57,Core,Establish appropriate server directory trees.
57,Core,Identify or maintain links to and from other Web sites and check links to ensure proper functioning.
55,Core,Recommend and implement performance improvements.
53,Core,Create searchable indices for Web page content.
53,Core,Register Web sites with search engines to increase Web site traffic.
53,Core,"Provide clear, detailed descriptions of Web site specifications, such as product features, activities, software, communication protocols, programming languages, and operating systems software and hardware."
50,Core,Monitor security system performance logs to identify problems and notify security specialists when problems occur.
50,Core,"Create web models or prototypes that include physical, interface, logical, or data models."
48,Supplemental,Evaluate or recommend server hardware or software.
47,Supplemental,"Document test plans, testing procedures, or test results."
44,Supplemental,"Research, document, rate, or select alternatives for Web architecture or technologies."
42,Supplemental,"Document technical factors such as server load, bandwidth, database performance, and browser and device types."
38,Supplemental,Install and configure hypertext transfer protocol (HTTP) servers and associated operating systems.
37,Supplemental,Develop system interaction or sequence diagrams.
Tools,Computer servers,Application servers
Tools,Computer servers,Web servers
Tools,Desktop computers,
Tools,High capacity removable media drives,Universal serial bus USB flash drives
Tools,Notebook computers,Laptop computers
Tools,Personal computers,
Technology,Application server software,Oracle WebLogic Server
Technology,Application server software,Red Hat WildFly
Technology,Business intelligence and data analysis software,Qlik Tech QlikView
Technology,Business intelligence and data analysis software,Tableau software
Technology,Communications server software,IBM Domino
Technology,Configuration management software,Perforce Helix software
Technology,Configuration management software,Puppet
Technology,Content workflow software,Sitecore CMS
Technology,Customer relationship management CRM software,Oracle Eloqua software
Technology,Data base management system software,Apache Hadoop
Technology,Data base management system software,MySQL software
Technology,Data base management system software,NoSQL software
Technology,Data base management system software,Sybase software
Technology,Data base reporting software,Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services
Technology,Data base reporting software,SAP BusinessObjects Crystal Reports
Technology,Data base user interface and query software,FileMaker Pro software
Technology,Data base user interface and query software,IBM Informix
Technology,Data base user interface and query software,Oracle JDBC
Technology,Data base user interface and query software,Structured query language SQL
Technology,Data mining software,Google Analytics
Technology,Desktop publishing software,Adobe Systems Adobe InDesign
Technology,Desktop publishing software,Microsoft Publisher
Technology,Development environment software,Apache Maven
Technology,Development environment software,C
Technology,Development environment software,Integrated development environment IDE software
Technology,Development environment software,Microsoft Visual SourceSafe
Technology,Document management software,Adobe Systems Adobe Acrobat software
Technology,Enterprise application integration software,Common gateway interface CGI
Technology,Enterprise application integration software,Extensible markup language XML
Technology,Enterprise application integration software,Extensible stylesheet language XSL
Technology,Enterprise application integration software,IBM WebSphere
Technology,Enterprise resource planning ERP software,Microsoft Dynamics software
Technology,Enterprise resource planning ERP software,SAP Business Objects software
Technology,Enterprise system management software,IBM Power Systems software
Technology,Enterprise system management software,Splunk Enterprise
Technology,Graphics or photo imaging software,Adobe Systems Adobe Fireworks
Technology,Graphics or photo imaging software,Adobe Systems Adobe Flash
Technology,Graphics or photo imaging software,Adobe Systems Adobe Photoshop software
Technology,Graphics or photo imaging software,Microsoft Visio
Technology,Map creation software,ESRI ArcGIS software
Technology,Map creation software,Geographic information system GIS software
Technology,Network monitoring software,Nagios
Technology,Network monitoring software,Wireshark
Technology,Object or component oriented development software,C++
Technology,Object or component oriented development software,Objective C
Technology,Object or component oriented development software,Oracle Java
Technology,Object or component oriented development software,Python
Technology,Object oriented data base management software,Hibernate ORM
Technology,Object oriented data base management software,PostgreSQL software
Technology,Office suite software,Microsoft Office software
Technology,Operating system software,Android
Technology,Operating system software,KornShell
Technology,Operating system software,Linux
Technology,Operating system software,Oracle Solaris
Technology,Portal server software,Apache HTTP Server
Technology,Program testing software,Hewlett Packard LoadRunner
Technology,Program testing software,JUnit
Technology,Project management software,Microsoft SharePoint software
Technology,Requirements analysis and system architecture software,Unified modeling language UML
Technology,Sales and marketing software,Google AdWords
Technology,Spreadsheet software,Microsoft Excel
Technology,Transaction server software,Customer information control system CICS
Technology,Transaction server software,Microsoft Internet Information Service IIS
Technology,Video creation and editing software,Adobe Systems Adobe After Effects
Technology,Video creation and editing software,Apple Final Cut Pro
Technology,Web page creation and editing software,Adobe Systems Adobe Dreamweaver
Technology,Web platform development software,Drupal
Technology,Web platform development software,JavaScript
Technology,Web platform development software,Ruby on Rails
Technology,Web platform development software,Zend Framework
75,Programming,Writing computer programs for various purposes.
69,Critical Thinking,"Using logic and reasoning to identify the strengths and weaknesses of alternative solutions, conclusions or approaches to problems."
66,Operations Analysis,Analyzing needs and product requirements to create a design.
63,Reading Comprehension,Understanding written sentences and paragraphs in work related documents.
63,Active Listening,"Giving full attention to what other people are saying, taking time to understand the points being made, asking questions as appropriate, and not interrupting at inappropriate times."
63,Complex Problem Solving,Identifying complex problems and reviewing related information to develop and evaluate options and implement solutions.
60,Speaking,Talking to others to convey information effectively.
56,Active Learning,Understanding the implications of new information for both current and future problem-solving and decision-making.
56,Judgment and Decision Making,Considering the relative costs and benefits of potential actions to choose the most appropriate one.
53,Writing,Communicating effectively in writing as appropriate for the needs of the audience.
53,Monitoring,"Monitoring/Assessing performance of yourself, other individuals, or organizations to make improvements or take corrective action."
53,Systems Analysis,"Determining how a system should work and how changes in conditions, operations, and the environment will affect outcomes."
50,Social Perceptiveness,Being aware of others' reactions and understanding why they react as they do.
50,Coordination,Adjusting actions in relation to others' actions.
50,Systems Evaluation,"Identifying measures or indicators of system performance and the actions needed to improve or correct performance, relative to the goals of the system."
50,Time Management,Managing one's own time and the time of others.
69,Deductive Reasoning,The ability to apply general rules to specific problems to produce answers that make sense.
66,Problem Sensitivity,"The ability to tell when something is wrong or is likely to go wrong. It does not involve solving the problem, only recognizing there is a problem."
63,Oral Comprehension,The ability to listen to and understand information and ideas presented through spoken words and sentences.
63,Written Comprehension,The ability to read and understand information and ideas presented in writing.
63,Information Ordering,"The ability to arrange things or actions in a certain order or pattern according to a specific rule or set of rules (e.g., patterns of numbers, letters, words, pictures, mathematical operations)."
63,Category Flexibility,The ability to generate or use different sets of rules for combining or grouping things in different ways.
63,Near Vision,The ability to see details at close range (within a few feet of the observer).
63,Speech Recognition,The ability to identify and understand the speech of another person.
60,Inductive Reasoning,The ability to combine pieces of information to form general rules or conclusions (includes finding a relationship among seemingly unrelated events).
60,Selective Attention,The ability to concentrate on a task over a period of time without being distracted.
60,Speech Clarity,The ability to speak clearly so others can understand you.
56,Oral Expression,The ability to communicate information and ideas in speaking so others will understand.
56,Written Expression,The ability to communicate information and ideas in writing so others will understand.
96,Interacting With Computers,"Using computers and computer systems (including hardware and software) to program, write software, set up functions, enter data, or process information."
87,Getting Information,"Observing, receiving, and otherwise obtaining information from all relevant sources."
87,Updating and Using Relevant Knowledge,Keeping up-to-date technically and applying new knowledge to your job.
83,Thinking Creatively,"Developing, designing, or creating new applications, ideas, relationships, systems, or products, including artistic contributions."
81,Processing Information,"Compiling, coding, categorizing, calculating, tabulating, auditing, or verifying information or data."
76,Making Decisions and Solving Problems,Analyzing information and evaluating results to choose the best solution and solve problems.
75,"Communicating with Supervisors, Peers, or Subordinates","Providing information to supervisors, co-workers, and subordinates by telephone, in written form, e-mail, or in person."
72,"Identifying Objects, Actions, and Events","Identifying information by categorizing, estimating, recognizing differences or similarities, and detecting changes in circumstances or events."
71,"Organizing, Planning, and Prioritizing Work","Developing specific goals and plans to prioritize, organize, and accomplish your work."
70,Analyzing Data or Information,"Identifying the underlying principles, reasons, or facts of information by breaking down information or data into separate parts."
66,Provide Consultation and Advice to Others,"Providing guidance and expert advice to management or other groups on technical, systems-, or process-related topics."
65,Evaluating Information to Determine Compliance with Standards,"Using relevant information and individual judgment to determine whether events or processes comply with laws, regulations, or standards."
65,Establishing and Maintaining Interpersonal Relationships,"Developing constructive and cooperative working relationships with others, and maintaining them over time."
61,Interpreting the Meaning of Information for Others,Translating or explaining what information means and how it can be used.
59,Developing Objectives and Strategies,Establishing long-range objectives and specifying the strategies and actions to achieve them.
58,Scheduling Work and Activities,"Scheduling events, programs, and activities, as well as the work of others."
58,Communicating with Persons Outside Organization,"Communicating with people outside the organization, representing the organization to customers, the public, government, and other external sources. This information can be exchanged in person, in writing, or by telephone or e-mail."
57,Documenting/Recording Information,"Entering, transcribing, recording, storing, or maintaining information in written or electronic/magnetic form."
57,Training and Teaching Others,"Identifying the educational needs of others, developing formal educational or training programs or classes, and teaching or instructing others."
53,Developing and Building Teams,"Encouraging and building mutual trust, respect, and cooperation among team members."
51,"Monitor Processes, Materials, or Surroundings","Monitoring and reviewing information from materials, events, or the environment, to detect or assess problems."
51,"Estimating the Quantifiable Characteristics of Products, Events, or Information","Estimating sizes, distances, and quantities; or determining time, costs, resources, or materials needed to perform a work activity."
51,Resolving Conflicts and Negotiating with Others,"Handling complaints, settling disputes, and resolving grievances and conflicts, or otherwise negotiating with others."
